# Conclusion
This thesis was set out to design and create a framework for the pre-emptive collection, analysis and forensic preservation of social media content. The idea behind the project was straightforward. A lot of what we see online only exists for a short period before it gets deleted or edited, which ends up not being able to be used in a digital investigation. The system we built helps combat this problem by storing the data we see people commenting every day to help identify harmful content and preserving it in a structured way that also provides integrity, before any formal investigation has even begun.

The framework we built has four main stages. Firstly, data is collected using YouTubes Data API v3, with all the relevant fields extracted and rest discarded. Every record is then hashed at this point of collection in order to maintain integrity in case of accidental scenarios where this data may be edited or hallucinated by the LLM. Then each individual record is passed onto the LLM and using the built-in guardrails the LLM decides the severity of the comment against a defined use case, and it returns the comment with a severity rating and a short explanation (maxTokens = 50) on how it reached its decision. Everything then is combined into one JSON file to be stored forensically where it can be checked to see if the hash is the same and the original comment is not altered. Then it can be manually reviewed by a human.

The decision to keep all records in a file was deliberately implemented as letting artificial intelligence decided to content filter out before a person can manually verify seemed like a bad decision in terms of a forensic context, where you might want to come back and reassess the full dataset later if the use case changes or brand new information comes into context. By keeping all material together along with the models reasoning allows for the final judgement to be always made by a person and not the model. This also allowed for us to keep the system aligned with current legal and compliance frameworks while making the reviewers job easier rather than harder.

Modularity was another key decision we had implemented. The collection module, analysis module and storage module were all independent from each other. In this way the collection module can be swapped out to support a completely different platform without having to change anything else. The analysis module would also be allowed to be reappointed to a different use case by just changing one variable at the top of the script. The storage module would remain the same regardless. This means that just by substituting these modules or slightly tweaking them, the same architecture could be used for a variety of investigations without having to rebuild it from scratch every single time, which is something we would have struggled with if it were to be complied together into one program.

Using an LLM rather than keyword-based filtering was one of the biggest changes we had between the initial implementation and the final design. This was due to the fact that keyword -filtering struggles with context, it is not able to tell the difference between a slur in an insult and the same word being used in a discussion about the slur. This would mean the filter will always flag sensitive words without understanding the context of the discussion and not flag words just because a particular word was not detected. This in turn would make it much harder for a reviewer and contain a lot more false positives and false negatives. However, it is also to be noted that the LLM is not perfect either, which is why we made the reasoning field central to the output, but it can handle context in a way that static word list never could. Setting the temperature to 0.3 and maxTokens to 50 allowed for outputs to e consistent enough to be used  in a forensic setting where accuracy and consistency matters.

There are limitations to the program on what it can currently do. It can only collect data from one platform, and it only fully supports English language content. It also cannot analyse a large number of results as it gets cut off. It also does not collect comment replies and only top-level comments. It does not support in analysing images, only text. Each of these is a real limitation that was identified along the creation of this project, and we have flagged it as something that can be developed in the further work section of the project. This project is a framework and blueprint for a much larger system that can be developed given the time and cost.

What this project demonstrates is the methodology behind the pre-emptive collection of social media content, paired with automated content analysis and proper integrity preservation. This produces a dataset that a human reviewer can work with. With more time, more training data and bigger budget, the same approach can be implemented into something that is very beneficial for digital investigators working across the fast-moving online events that forensics is currently struggling to keep up with.
